{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1345\cocoasubrtf380
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww38200\viewh18580\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs48 \cf0 Inferring Recent Demography Surfaces via Haplotype Sharing\
\
Hussein Al-Asadi1, Desislava Petkova2, John Novembre3, Matthew Stephens3,4\
\
1 Committee on Evolutionary Biology, UChicago\
2 Wellcome Trust Centre of Human Genetics\
3 Dept. of Human Genetics, UChicago\
4 Dept. of Statistics, UChicago\
\
Long stretches of sequence similarity between chromosomes are informative of recent ancestry and allow inference of demography in the recent past. We model the number of these stretches shared between pairs of individuals to infer a migration and population size surface for the recent past under a model of isolation by distance. Long stretches of sequence similarity correspond to long non-recombining (NR) segments. As these NR segments become larger, they become increasingly sensitive to recent coalescent events. Furthermore, long NR segments are only a function of recent demography, permitting us to simplify computation by ignoring demography in the distant past. In this work, we present a coalescent based method to model long NR segments. Since we are only interested in inferring demography in the recent past, we only consider NR segments greater than a threshold of 3 cM which can be inferred from long stretches of sequence similarity with almost perfect accuracy. Furthermore, we allow the user to look at specific length ranges depending on the time range of interest, for example [10cM, Inf) for the very recent past. We apply our method to array data from thousands of Europeans and find the inferred population size and migration surface reflects recent historical events. }